---
summary: Data masking techniques in OutSystems
locale: en-us
guid: d08f59bd-a398-40a7-8106-dadd8645ee3d
---

# Data masking with OutSystems

The code generated by OutSystems follows security best practices, which encompasses some features like masked password fields out of the box. Other than that, OutSystems provides powerful tools that allow developers easy methods of anonymizing data through recommended techniques such as: 

* **Data masking** - Use of predetermined masks to hide or change emails and credit card numbers, for example, by using built-in actions to generate random data and search/replace parts of a string.
	
* **Alias** - Use a code to refer to a specific asset instead of the real name. Built-in actions to generate random unique identifiers exist and can be used for this purpose.
	
* **Generalization** - For example, use city as address instead of postal code or street/door number. In this example, if the country isn't a separate field already, OutSystems facilitates integration with location services that allow you to determine the country from the information you have.
	
* **Shuffling** - reorder elements on a list to lose the correlation with reality. For example, shuffle a specific attribute on an entity list using OutSystems built-in list manipulation methods.
	
* **Variation** - useful for numerical attributes, where we can add noise to change the value while making it useful. For example, add or subtract a random number of days to a birth date using the OutSystems built-in date and numeric functions.
	
* **Synthetic data** - Share processed data instead of full access to raw values (for example to execute calculations and share the end result).
	
* **Cypher** - Cypher data when storing data in devices or databases to protect it in case of unauthorized access to data


One such example of data anonymization implementation is [this component](https://www.outsystems.com/forge/component-overview/8865/data-anonymization) available in the OutSystems Forge. This in an example code of how you can define rules that apply anonymization techniques to data sets, before it's shown on the screen or made available through an API.
