---
summary: Explore static application security testing (SAST) processes for code generated by OutSystems 11 (O11) in various deployment environments.
locale: en-us
guid: ed956c15-115d-4728-ad1a-1b9319ef4e8d
app_type: traditional web apps, mobile apps, reactive web apps
platform-version: o11
figma:
tags: static application security testing (sast), outsystems 11, code analysis, security best practices
audience:
  - frontend developers
  - full stack developers
  - backend developers
  - platform administrators
  - architects
outsystems-tools:
  - lifetime
coverage-type:
  - apply
topic:
  - use-third-party-sast
---

# Static application security testing

This document describes the process of running static application security testing (SAST) on the code generated by OutSystems, from the export of source code to analyzing the results.

## Retrieving the code of your apps

To retrieve the high-code of O11 apps, refer to [Download source code in O11](https://www.outsystems.com/tk/redirect?g=c0f22c7d-ac63-4704-b50f-97a3c697da44).

To retrieve the high-code of ODC apps, refer to [Retrieving generated code for SAST analysis in ODC](https://www.outsystems.com/tk/redirect?g=9bb1a3bf-d025-407a-b8fd-5ff339494f9b).

## Reviewing results { #review-results }

When reviewing static code analysis results, it's important to keep in mind that each static code analysis tool will report on findings without a proper context. These findings must be reviewed to detect false positives and experts in OutSystems development shall be consulted to help on understanding those findings in the proper context.

Following are some examples of such findings and why they should be considered false positives.

### Code injection: improper neutralization of directives in dynamically evaluated code (eval injection)

<div class="info" markdown="1">

OutSystems introduced an option to disallow the unsafe-inline and unsafe-eval policies. Using eval and other functions was replaced by safer alternatives that don't require these two policies. For more information, refer to [Apply Content Security Policy](https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/11/security/apply_content_security_policy).

</div>

**Details**: "eval(...)" is a JavaScript function that receives HTML code, evaluates it and runs every JavaScript code inside `<script>` tags, hence the potential vulnerability.

OutSystems makes heavy use of JavaScript and `<script>` inline tags. The usages are trusted and ok to be executed. Therefore, OutSystems has added the unsafe-inline and unsafe-eval policies to our default Content Security Policies directives.

These potential threats in the form of inline scripts would only be possible to execute if the application is not protected against XSS attacks. OutSystems is by default well protected against this and customers need to specifically allow inline expressions in order to open up for this attack. These openings are accompanied with security warnings at design time, in the Service Studio (OutSystems IDE).

In order to increase the security level, there is a mechanism described in [Apply Content Security Policy](https://success.outsystems.com/Documentation/10/Managing_the_Applications_Lifecycle/Secure_the_Applications/Apply_Content_Security_Policy) article.

**Remaining risk:** If the user input isn't properly validated and it's written into a web page unsanitized, the application may be exposed to XSS attacks. This risk can be completely neutralized by protecting all user input (that will be written on a web page) with OutSystems built-in actions to sanitize JavaScript and HTML: EncodeJavaScript and EncodeHTML, respectively.

More information can be found [here](develop-secure-apps/code-injection-css-attacks.md).

### Credentials management: use of hard-coded passwords

**Details**: Static code analysis tools typically raise a flag when the _password_ word is anywhere in the code.

The files where this flag is normally raised are, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL and DB2 database connectors. None of these files have hard-coded passwords, but they do have variables named password. All values for the password variables are obtained dynamically.

This can be verified using decompiler tools and inspect the flagged DLL files to confirm that there are no hard-coded passwords there.

### Cross-site Scripting (XSS): improper neutralization of script-related HTML tags in a web page

<div class="info" markdown="1">

Applies only to O11.

</div>

**Details**: Most of the flags will be raised on file osjs.js. This happens because OutSystems uses the jQuery query selector $, which is known for being vulnerable to XSS in some earlier versions of jQuery, including the one that the platform uses.

OutSystems makes its own implementation of $, protecting it against XSS, so this is likely a false positive.

More information about this can be found in this [article](https://success.outsystems.com/Support/Security/FALSE_POSITIVE_-_jQuery_1.8.3_flagged_as_a_vulnerable_library).

### Cryptographic issues: use of a broken or risky cryptographic algorithm

**Details**: This issue is typically flagged when default random generators or hashing functions are used, assuming that those functions are being used for cryptographic or security related operations. This may not be the case and using a random() or hash() is perfectly fine if the results of those functions are not used to encrypt or authenticate content.

Since OutSystems doesn't use weak functions for cryptographic ends, this should be considered a false positive. This finding is commonly flagged when analyzing the file OutSystems.RuntimeCommon.dll, which contains some random and hash functions but they're not used for cryptographic or security-related operations.

### Improper neutralization of special elements used in an SQL command (SQL injection)

**Details**: OutSystems doesn't explicitly perform SQL Injection validation on all SQL queries that are executed by applications. However, the platform has a SQL sanitization built-in action available that allows developers to validate all user inputs that are going to be used in SQL statements.

Therefore, it's the developer’s responsibility to guarantee that all user inputs are sanitizing before being used in a SQL statement. Moreover, OutSystems displays a warning at design and compile time when a pattern that may introduce a SQL Injection vulnerability is detected.

### Sensitive data exposure

**Details:** "alert(…)", “confirm(…)” and “prompt(…)” creates a pop-up that can expose sensitive information.

All usages of the aforementioned functions has been validated for possible sensitive data exposure. The platform makes use of the functions for error handling, not exposing any sensitive data.

### shred.bundle.js flagged as a potentially vulnerable library

**Details:** Some Static Code Analysis tools may flag OutSystems as having a vulnerable _shred.bundle.js_ library.

OutSystems uses _swagger-ui 2.0.0_, which is present in all applications that expose REST web services. One of its dependencies is _shred.bundle.js_, which uses the [window.postMessage()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage/) API with the wildcard keyword (*) in the targetOrigin argument.

Best practices recommend avoiding the use of the wildcard when dealing with sensitive information, as there is no way to guarantee that the data is only accessible to the intended recipient pages, therefore allowing cross-domain messaging access.

Therefore, even though this vulnerability is still present in _shred.bundle.js_, the use of the mentioned API in such conditions by OutSystems is harmless, as no sensitive information is passed on.

### Cross-site scripting: DOM

**Details:** Some static code analysis tools may flag `plugins/cordova-plugin-inappbrowser/tests/resources/local.html` as being susceptible to DOM-based cross-site scripting.

This file isn't part of the final build, nor the build system, hence it can be safely be marked as a false positive and/or excluded from the testing scope.

## Support from OutSystems

OutSystems Support and Security Teams are ready to discuss the findings of the static code analysis with customers under the following conditions:

* We expect customers to involve one of their trained OutSystems engineers to do a preliminary analysis of the report, and report to OutSystems Support only the issues inherent to the product.
* The list of issues reported to OutSystems Support should exclude issues that can be fixed by developers by changing the applications.

OutSystems support reply may include:

* A reasoned identification of false positives;
* A reasoned adjustment of severity based on the specifics of the technical environment;
* An escalation of eventual product defects to `R&D`;
* The classification of an issue as "to be solved in the application".
Furthermore, the following tables can help understand the responsibilities and expectations by deployment model:

### OutSystems Cloud environments

| | Responsibilities | Expectations |
| ------------ | ------------------ | -------------- |
| Customer | <ul><li>Request the source code by opening a support case.</li><li>Execute the static code analysis.</li><li>Review the findings and OutSystem documentation and best practices to perform any necessary</li></ul> | <ul><li>The customer has knowledge of the tool(s) used to perform static code analysis.</li><li>The customer is responsible for submitting the extracted code for static code analysis, collecting the results, reviewing the results, performing the necessary correction and re-check after correction.</li></ul> |
| OutSystems | <ul><li>Maintain and manage OutSystems Cloud.</li><li>Help customers set up the infrastructure.</li><li>Provide support to customers on issues related to OutSystems software.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Has expert knowledge on OutSystems Cloud.</li><li>Has expert knowledge on OutSystems.</li><li>Is able to help customers with OutSystems related issues  [(support terms)](https://success.outsystems.com/Support/Enterprise_Customers/OutSystems_Support/Support_terms_and_service_level_agreements_(SLA)_of_the_OutSystems_software).</li><li>Is able to reply to customer questions.</li></ul> |

### Self-managed environments

| | Responsibilities | Expectations |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------- |
| Customer | <ul><li>Deploy and manage OutSystems on self managed servers.</li><li>Extract the applications source code for static code analysis.</li><li>Execute the static code analysis.</li></ul> | <ul><li>The customer has knowledge of how to configure and manage OutSystems and underlying technologies.</li><li>The customer has knowledge of the tool(s) used to perform static code analysis</li><li>The customer is responsible for extracting the code, submitting it for static code analysis, collecting the results, reviewing the results, performing the necessary correction and re-checking after correction.</li></ul> |
| OutSystems | <ul><li>Provide support to customers on issues related with OutSystems software.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Has expert knowledge on OutSystems.</li><li>Is able to help customers with OutSystems related issues [(support terms)](https://success.outsystems.com/Support/Enterprise_Customers/OutSystems_Support/Support_terms_and_service_level_agreements_(SLA)_of_the_OutSystems_software).</li><li>Is able to reply to customers questions.</li></ul> |
