---
summary: 
locale: en-us
guid: fe226116-b5ca-4693-8e0b-1d705fb4d823
app_type: mobile apps, reactive web apps
platform-version: odc
figma:
---

<h1>Translations of Static Entities not applying to an application</h1>

<p>Error Code: N/A<br/>
<strong>Symptoms</strong>: Static Entities are not translated, Translation is not working</p>

<h2>Precautions</h2>

<p>N/A</p>

<h2>Troubleshooting</h2>

<p>While trying to take advantage of <a href="https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/outsystems_developer_cloud/building_apps/multilingual_apps/">Multilingual Apps</a>, you may notice that the content of Static Entities may remain in the default language even after you translated it. If this is occurring, please confirm if the Static Entity in question is part of another Web/Mobile Application and is being consumed by your current application as a referenced public element (<a href="https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/outsystems_developer_cloud/app_architecture/reuse_elements_across_apps/">Reuse elements across apps</a>).</p>

<p>If you're facing this scenario, then the cause of this is a current limitation of translations in ODC with weak references between applications. Please proceed to the section below.</p>

<h2>Incident Resolution Measures</h2>

<p>We aim to improve this behavior so that this limitation no longer occurs. Until that happens, there are a few temporary suggestions which may be helpful:</p>

<ol>
    <li>If you are using the Static Entity as an enumeration of values, it can then be refactored to a Library and consumed by any application. Libraries are strong references so the limitation does not apply;</li>
    <li>Alternatively, you can expose any data access logic from the producer module as Service Actions and avoid having multiple consumers query entities owned by the producer. This contributes to a better micro-service architecture as you will have an abstraction layer on top of the data.</li>
    <li>As a last resort, consider moving the Static Entities directly to the application you are translating if this is acceptable for you.</li>
</ol>
