---
summary: 
locale: en-us
guid: 8bbf2600-ccb9-4808-ab56-8c8e19fab8f3
app_type: mobile apps, reactive web apps
platform-version: odc
figma:
---

<h1>Deleted users remain visible in the User System Entity</h1>

<strong>Symptoms</strong>: Duplicated users, Deleted users in User system entity, System users are not deleted.

<h2>Troubleshooting</h2>

When querying the User system entity (e.g. checking the Entity directly in ODC Studio or in an aggregate that uses it as a source), you may find that it contains users that aren't visible at all in ODC Portal. It's possible that you'll recognise users that may have been deleted in the past, an even duplicates of users that exist in ODC Portal.

If you cannot find the User in any other way, such as in ODC Portal, or through the <a href="https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/outsystems_developer_cloud/outsystems_language_and_elements/outsystems_apis/odc_rest_apis/user_and_access_management_api/">User and Access Management API</a>, then your scenario is likely covered in this Incident Model, please proceed to the section below.

<h2>Incident Resolution Measures</h2>

This behavior is intended, because the User System Entity essentially functions as a cache that cannot be deleted; it may be best perceived as a record of users who have logged in previously in that specific stage, rather than an up to date list of active Users. Its information is also isolated from Stage to Stage (meaning in Development, you won't find users that were only added in Production).

The reason for you to be seeing multiple accounts is, for example, in scenarios where a user may have been deleted and recreated multiple times, so each of those entries is a different account; for the User System Entity, only the ID (not the email or name) ensures uniqueness among entries. 

If you are using this entity to manage your users in a practical scenario, we recommend that you instead use the <a href="https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/outsystems_developer_cloud/outsystems_language_and_elements/outsystems_apis/odc_rest_apis/user_and_access_management_api/">User and Access Management API</a>. The source of this API is the real-time list of users depending on its status, and beyond that, their parameters allow you to have much more control over the results.
