---
summary: 
locale: en-us
guid: 4e6b0868-ffd0-4b2e-90d4-8e7bae53decb
app_type: mobile apps, reactive web apps
platform-version: odc
figma:
---

<h1>OS-RDBS-GEN-40003</h1>

<h2>Error message</h2>

<p>Database upgrade error.: Redeployment of previously existing attribute is not supported. Attribute [AttributeName] in [EntityName] was deleted in a previous version. Suggestion: Change the name of the Attribute [AttributeName].</p>

<h2>Cause</h2>

<p>This error occurs when you're trying to give a name to an entity attribute that belongs to another attribute in the same entity that was deleted in a previous revision. This is done to ensure data integrity, as the attribute is not truly deleted in the database. As such, the name cannot be reused by other attributes in the same entity.</p>

<h2>Impact</h2>

<p>This will prevent you from using the name of an Attribute that was deleted in that Entity.</p>

<h2>Recommended action</h2>

<p>The main and easiest alternative is to give a different name to the new attribute.</p>

<p>If you you're trying to recover the data of the deleted attribute, we recommend merging the current revision with the revision before the original attribute was deleted. More information in our section <a href="https://success.outsystems.com/documentation/outsystems_developer_cloud/building_apps/merge_the_work/">Merge the Work</a>.</p>

<p>Finally, if you truly need to have a new attribute with the name of the old one, you can recover the original attribute following the same steps described in the sentence above, rename the old attribute to something else and then giving its original name to the new attribute. You can then delete the original attribute safely again.</p>
